Typos (#42)
schoeberl/chisel-book: chisel-book.tex

\shortlist{code/components_fn_2delay.txt}

> \noindent Again, this is a too short an example to be useful, as \code{RegNext()}

Author: ```suggestion
\noindent Again, this is too short an example to be useful, as \code{RegNext()}
```

Also have a write timing diagram. And find a better font for the diagram to have nicer
rendering in the SVG.}

> Here we define a simple pipelined handshake bus protocol that avoids the single-cycle combinational loop and fits better for modern SoC designs.

Author: ```suggestion
Here we define a simple pipelined handshake bus protocol that avoids the single-cycle combinational loop and fits better with modern SoC designs.
```

Figure~\ref{fig:bus_pipe_ack} shows such a bus protocol that does not need
a combinational reaction of the peripheral device. The request from the processor
is only a single clock cycle long. The address bus and the read signal do not need to be driven
until the acknowledgment. Compared to the former protocol, the \code{ack} signal needs to
be valid (low or high)

> earliest one clock cycle after the \code{rd} command, in clock cycle 3.

Author: ```suggestion
no earlier than one clock cycle after the \code{rd} command, in clock cycle 3.
```

\subsection{Memory Mapped Devices}
\index{Memory mapped IO}

> In our example system all devices, being it memory or IO devices, are connected to shared

Author: ```suggestion
In our example system all devices, whether they be memory or IO devices, are connected to shared
```

However, for an SoC interconnect, which is usually
point-to-point\footnote{Multiplexers are used instead of buses to
connect several slaves and masters.}, this is not the best approach.
The master is requested to hold the address and data valid through
the whole read or write cycle. This complicates the connection to a
master that has the data valid only for one cycle. In this case the
address and data have to be registered \emph{before} the Wishbone
connect, or an expensive (in terms of time and resources) multiplexer has to be
used. A register results in one additional cycle of latency. A better
approach would be to register the address and data in the slave. In
that case the address decoding in the slave can be performed in the
same cycle as when the address is registered. A similar issue, with
respect to the master, exists for the output data from the slave: As
it is only valid for a single cycle the data has to be registered by
the master when the master is not reading it immediately. Therefore,
the slave should keep the last valid data at its output even when
the Wishbone strobe signal (\emph{wb.stb}) is not assigned anymore.

> Holding the data in the slave is usually \emph{free} with respect to

Author: ```suggestion
Holding the data in the slave is usually \emph{free} in terms of
```

\section{Testing in Chisel}

ChiselTest is based on ScalaTest. Therefore, we can run all tests with a simple \code{sbt test}.

> ScalaTest also supports multithreaded testing out of the box meaning that if you have more

Author: ```suggestion
ScalaTest also supports multithreaded testing out of the box, so if you have multiple
```

test classes in your project, they can run in parallel. Additionally, you can make use of
the \code{FlatSpec} syntax to write clear test descriptions and make debugging easier.

You define Chisel tests as classes that extend \code{AnyFlatSpec} with
the\\ \code{ChiselScalatestTester} trait. ChiselTest uses \code{peek},
\code{poke}, \code{expect}, and \code{step} methods that operate on the DUT's IO ports.
The ChiselTest methods operate on Chisel types (i.e., \code{UInt}s,
\code{SInt}s and \code{Bool}s). However, when peeking a value we
usually would like to have Scala types for the test written in Scala.
Therefore, two additional methods exist: (1) \code{peekInt()} returns a
Scala \code{Int} and (2) \code{peekBoolean()} returns a Scala \code{Boolean}.
To advance the simulation by one clock cycle,
we call \code{step()} on the DUT's implicit clock port.

You can define a test within the \code{test()} function which takes the module to test as
parameter. As an example, the following tester tests a few inputs to  a BCD table:

\shortlist{code/basic_chiseltest.txt}

> Alternatively, you can use the \code{behavior of "module name"} syntax to

Author: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the \code{behavior of ``module name''} syntax to
```

advances the clock by one clock cycle and deasserts the read function. In our example device,
the read value should be available after one clock cycle. However, we generalize the read function
also for devices with longer latencies and the read function waits in an endless loop that \code{ack}
will become true. Note that we use \code{peekBoolean} to read a Scala \code{Boolean}.
However, if a device has the fault of never asserting \code{ack} after a request,
the test will hang in an endless loop. A robuster read function shall contain a timeout for the \code{ack}
polling. Finally, we read the data from \code{rdData} with \code{peekInt()} to read a Scala integer
value (concrete a \code{BigInt} to express integers of any size).

The \code{write} function takes an address and the data parameters as Scala \code{Int}.
Similar to the read function, the values are poked into the device, the clock is advanced by one

> clock cycle, and then the write signal deasserted. Also here we wait in an endless loop for

Author: ```suggestion
clock cycle, and then the write signal deasserted. Here we also wait in an endless loop for
```

\code{ack} to become true.

> With those three functions available, we can write more readable tests in fewer lines of code.

Author: ```suggestion
With those three functions available, we can write more readable tests with fewer lines of code.
```

This testing code already covers more cases than the original bit-banging
tester.\footnote{It happened that I had an off-by-one error (\code{until 3} instead of \code{until 4})
in the counter device that I found only with the second, more comprehensive test.}

%\section{Advanced Testing}

If you have a large test suite, you may wish to run only a subset of your tests
as part of a \myref{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration}{continuous integration}
run. The easiest way to achieve this and still have to run only a single SBT command
is by tagging your tests.

\shortlist{code/tag_test.txt}

> \noindent Per default, all tests are run by using \code{sbt test} or \code{sbt testOnly *}.

Author: ```suggestion
\noindent By default, all tests are run using \code{sbt test} or \code{sbt testOnly *}.
```

\section{Multithreaded Testing}

ChiselTest has support for multithreaded testing through the use of \code{fork} and
\code{join} calls. \code{fork} spawns a new tester thread with a block of test code
as its parameter, while \code{join} may be called on a tester thread variable
(returned by a \code{fork} call) to wait for it to join the main thread.

Running multiple threads does present some new limitations to \code{peek}s and
\code{poke}s in that no two threads can \code{peek} (respectively, \code{poke}) the
same signal at the same time. Similarly, to guarantee correct operation, the threads
are synchronized on calls to \code{step}.
The following snippet is a small test of a FIFO that enqueues an element in one thread
and dequeues it in the main thread:

\shortlist{code/fork_join_example.txt}

Multiple threads are spawned with stacked calls to \code{fork}. The spawned threads
represent a hierarchy in which the first thread should not finish before any of the
subsequent threads.

\section{Simulator Backends}
\index{Verilator}
\index{VCS}

By default, tests written with ChiselTest are run by the Treadle simulation backend.

> The benefit of Treadle is the quick startup time and the fact that no additional tools need to be installed.

Author: ```suggestion
The benefits of Treadle are its quick startup time and the fact that it does not require any additional tools to be installed.
```

However,
larger system tests may either require another backend to support, for example, latches, or may
benefit in terms of simulation time. To enable this, ChiselTest supports two other backends:
\myref{https://www.veripool.org/wiki/verilator}{Verilator} and
\myref{https://www.synopsys.com/verification/simulation/vcs.html}{Synopsys VCS}. Because
Verilator is open-source, we will use it for the examples presented in this section. Note
that in all cases, VCS can be be used as an alternative to Verilator.

Switching to a different backend is simply a matter of adding another annotation to the

> \code{withAnnotations} call as shown in the Waveforms section. To use Verilator, add following

Author: ```suggestion
\code{withAnnotations} call as shown in the Waveforms section. To use Verilator, add the following
```

\section{Contributing to Chisel}

> The following is an advanced topic, and I propose you first start following the discussions
> of the Chisel project issues on GitHub before creating your first pull request (PR).

Author: ```suggestion
The following is an advanced topic, and I propose that you first start following the discussions
of the Chisel project issues on GitHub before you create your first pull request (PR).
```

\subsection{Setup the Development Environment}

Chisel consists of several different repositories: the main repositories are hosted on
\myref{https://github.com/chipsalliance/chisel3}{CHIPS Alliance} and others on
the \myref{https://github.com/freechipsproject}{freechips organization at GitHub}.

Fork the repository to which you would like to contribute into your personal GitHub account.
You can fork the repository by pressing the \code{Fork} button in the GitHub web interface.
Then from that fork, clone your fork of the repository.\footnote{Note that on a breaking
FIRRTL/Chisel change, you might need to also fork and clone \code{firrtl}.}
In our example, we change \code{chisel3}, and the clone command for my local fork is:

\begin{verbatim}
$ git clone git@github.com:schoeberl/chisel3.git
\end{verbatim}

> To compile Chisel 3 and publish it as a local library execute:

Author: ```suggestion
To compile Chisel 3 and publish it as a local library, execute:
```
